.gitlab/merge_request_templates/default.md, before:

<!-- Thanks for taking the time to make Firefish better! It's not required, but please consider using [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) when making your commits. If you use VSCode, please use the [Conventional Commits extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vivaxy.vscode-conventional-commits). -->

**What does this PR do?** _(Please give us a brief description of what this PR does.)_

**Contribution Guidelines**
By submitting this merge request, you agree to follow our [Contribution Guidelines](https://firefish.dev/firefish/firefish/-/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [ ] I agree to follow this project's Contribution Guidelines
- [ ] I have made sure to test this pull request
- [ ] I have made sure to run `pnpm run format` before submitting this pull request

If this merge request makes changes to the Firefish API, please update `docs/api-change.md`
- [ ] I updated the document / This merge request doesn't include API changes

<!-- Uncomment if your merge request has multiple authors -->
<!-- Co-authored-by: Name <email@email.com> -->

Commit message:

meta: update issue/merge request templates (close #10896)

.gitlab/merge_request_templates/default.md, after:

<!-- Thanks for taking the time to make Firefish better! It's not required, but please consider using [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) when making your commits. If you use VSCode, please use the [Conventional Commits extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vivaxy.vscode-conventional-commits). -->

**What does this PR do?** _(Please give us a brief description of what this PR does.)_

**Contribution Guidelines**
By submitting this merge request, you agree to follow our [Contribution Guidelines](https://firefish.dev/firefish/firefish/-/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [ ] This change is reviewed in an issue / This is a minor bug fix
- [ ] I agree to follow this project's Contribution Guidelines
- [ ] I have made sure to test this pull request
- [ ] I have made sure to run `pnpm run format` before submitting this pull request

If this merge request makes changes to the Firefish API, please update `docs/api-change.md`
- [ ] I updated the document / This merge request doesn't include API changes

<!-- Uncomment if your merge request has multiple authors -->
<!-- Co-authored-by: Name <email@example.com> -->
